# Chapter 17

## Final Words
Now I’ve come to the end, and hopefully you’re ready and excited to start making your own Unity iOS apps. If there's one lesson that I hope you can take from this book, it's that you can start with something simple and keep building on it until it turns into something interesting. Don't be one of those people who want to start with a massively-multiplayer online (MMO) game as a first project!Remember to keep learning and participate in the Unity community, both contributing and asking for help on the Unity forum and on the Unity Answers site, and don't forget to check the Unity wiki. It's fine to promote your work to the community (there is a Showcase topic in the Unity forum) and ask others to spread the word, but remember to return the favor!As an unintended result of working on my own projects with Unity iOS, I’ve met a population of developers with whom I can commiserate and celebrate and trade valuable tips. I won’t try to list them all, but you can find them on my twitter follow list at @fugugames. Twitter, by the way, is another great way to interact with other Unity developers, on a more personal level.I've communicated with many customers over twitter, also, and have had some success with setting up Facebook product pages for my games (in particular, HyperBowl). Although app customers can be legendarily snarky, I’ve found most of them are supportive and sympathetic of us independent developers and are enthused to be part of the process if we let them. In fact, I've benefited from a lot of free QA and some localization (translation) help, not to mention a lot feedback. So, set up those twitter feeds and Facebook fan pages and start talking!

Above all, have fun. Any other reward is a bonus!